NBP coding standard
=========

The purpose of this document is to define one style of programming that to be
used for the entire project. Please read this coding standard and follow it as
close as possible.

## Table of contents
- [Style](#style)
- [Formatting](#formatting)
- [Naming](#naming)
- [Comments](#comments)
- [Commits](#commits)

## Style

* TBA

## Formatting

* TBA

## Naming

* The words from the name of the file should be separated by underscore
character. The name of the file should be lower case.
Example: ```test_case.h```

* The header guard should start with ```_H_NBP_``` and it should continue with
the name of the folders where the file is and the last part should be the name
of the file. The words should be separated by underscore character. The header
guard should be upper case.
Example: let be the file ```<root>/include/internal/types/test_case.h``` for
this file the header guard should be ```_H_NBP_INTERNAL_TYPES_TEST_CASE```.

* The name of the structure should start with ```nbp_``` and it should end
with ```_t```. The words from name should be separated by underscore character.
The name should be lower case.
Example:
```C
struct nbp_test_case_t
{
    int something;
};
```

* The alias for a pointer to function should start with ```nbp_``` and it should
end with ```_pfn_t```. The words from alias name should be separated by
underscore character. The alias name should be lower case.
Example:
```C
typedef void (*nbp_test_case_setup_pfn_t)(
    struct nbp_test_case_t* /* nbpParamTest */);
```

* The name of the enumeration should start with ```nbp_``` and it should end
with ```_e```. The words from name should be separated by underscore character.
The name should be lower case.
The name of the members should start with the acronym of the enumeration name,
the words should be separated by underscore character and it should be lower
case.
Example:
```C
enum nbp_test_case_state_e
{
    tcs_initialized = 0x10000000,
    tcs_passed      = 0x10000001,
    tcs_failed      = 0x10000002
};
```

* The name of the macro should start with ```NBP_``` if it is part of the API,
otherwise it should start with ```INTERNAL_NBP_```. The words from name should
be separated by underscore character. The name should be upper case.
Example:
```C
#define NBP_INSTANTIATE_TEST_CASE(name)                                        \
    INTERNAL_NBP_INSTANTIATE_TEST_CASE(name, NULL, NULL)

#define INTERNAL_NBP_INSTANTIATE_TEST_CASE(name, setupFunc, teardownFunc)      \
    do {                                                                       \
        numberOfTestCase++;                                                    \
    } while (0);
```

* The name of the functions should start with ```nbp_``` if it is part of the
API, otherwise it should start with ```internal_nbp_```. The words from name
should be separated by underscore character. The name should be lower case.
Example:
```C
void internal_nbp_instantiate_test_case_impl(
    nbp_test_case_t*             testCase,
    nbp_test_case_setup_pfn_t    testCaseSetup,
    nbp_test_case_teardown_pfn_t testCaseTeardown)
{
    return;
}

void nbp_instantiate_test_case(nbp_test_case_t* testCase)
{
    internal_nbp_instantiate_test_case_impl(testCase, NULL, NULL);
}
```

* The name of the local variables, function parameters and structure members
should start with a lower case letter and use ```camelCase``` format.
Example:
```C
struct nbp_test_case_t
{
    int something;
    int somethingNew;
};

void nbp_instantiate_test_case(nbp_test_case_t* testCase)
{
    nbp_test_case_setup_pfn_t testCaseSetupFunc       = NULL;
    nbp_test_case_teardown_pfn_t testCaseTeardownFunc = NULL;

    internal_nbp_instantiate_test_case_impl(
        testCase,
        testCaseSetupFunc,
        testCaseTeardownFunc);
}
```

* The name of the global variables should start with ```gInternalNbp``` and
use ```camelCase``` format.
Example:
```C
nbp_test_case_setup_pfn_t gInternalNbpDefaultTestCaseSetup = NULL;
```

* If the function header is generated by a macro then the name of the parameters
should start with ```nbpParam``` and use ```camelCase``` format.
Example:
```C
#define NBP_TEST_CASE_SETUP(name)                                              \
    void nbp_test_case_setup_##name(nbp_test_case_t* nbpParamTestCase)

NBP_TEST_CASE_SETUP(myTestCaseSetup)
{
    // do something
}
```

## Comments

* Any file should start with a comment that represent the license text.
* Use "//" for comments and add comments whenever is needed for readability.

## Commits

The commit message should end with ```#<issue_id>``` if the commit is related
to an issue. Also, the commit message should start with an emoji:
* If the commit is related to the documentation use :memo:
* If the commit removes something use :recycle:
* If the commit is related to the release process use :bookmark:
* If the commit adds a feature use :rocket:
* If the commit fixes a bug use :bug:
* If the commit is related to the build scripts/process use :construction:
* If the commit adds a test use :pushpin:
* If the commit adds some improvements use :hammer:
* If the commit fixes compile error/warning use :warning:
* If the commit fixes the build use :heavy_check_mark:
* If the commit fixes a test use :wrench:

Try to separate the changes into more commits such that the commit message not
to start with more emojis.
